In Milestone 3, I analyzed two variables from a dataset showing statistics of Vietnam Veterans by state. By comparing each states’ percentage of veterans who held a bachelors’ degree or higher with the veterans’ median personal income, I aimed to identify a correlation between level of education and wealth. My preliminary analysis indicates a weak yet positive correlation; as the percentage of veterans with a bachelor’s degree increases, median personal income also tends to rise. This relationship aligns with broader economic patterns observed in the United States, particularly during the late 20th century, when higher education was strongly associated with access to higher-paying careers. Although this is only a preliminary analysis, the trend suggests that Vietnam veterans followed similar socioeconomic patterns as the general population. 

Because these initial results suggested a predictive relationship between education and income, I was curious to know whether this relationship would continue when introducing a third variable, the population of Vietnam veterans in each state. My goal was therefore to see whether there was a measurable difference in the relationship between a state’s education-income ratio and the number of veterans each state sent to Vietnam and if data illustrated a pattern researchers could reliably use to predict socio-economic conditions. 

To do this, I first wrote code to calculate a ratio between the percentage of those with a bachelor’s degree and the median personal income for each state. Next, I plotted that ratio against the number of veterans sent from each state on a graph to visualize its distribution. I found a flaw in this metric though, as naturally, states with large overall populations such as California, Florida, and Texas found their way to the top of the chart skewing the data away from displaying an accurate representation of how populations effect later demographics. To account for this skew, I decided to convert the variable of Vietnam Veteran population from a count to a proportion. I first found and downloaded the census data of population growth and then calculated the average population of each state during the Vietnam War by averaging 1960 and 1970 population figures. I then merged the census data frame with the veteran data frame, allowing me to divide the number of Vietnam veterans by the average population of each state to get a rough estimate of the proportion of each state that served in the Vietnam War. 

The resulting graph was densely clustered, suggesting little to no correlation between a state’s income and education levels and the proportion of Vietnam veterans in its population. Most of the states fell within a narrow range, indicating relatively consistent veteran proportions regardless of socio-economic differences. This pattern suggests that veteran demographics are shaped less by geographical distribution or socioeconomic positions and more by outside factors, such as draft policies for example. In conclusion, by revealing the absence of a direct relationship between veteran location and socioeconomic factors, my computational analysis provides a baseline for researchers to understand how it was other historical forces that played a more significant role in shaping veteran demographics.  

 # Hist1354_Digital_Methods_Final
